SNMP Enumeration
Over the years, we have often found that
the Simple Network Management Protocol
is not well-understood by
many network administrators.
This often results in
SNMP misconfigurations,
which can result in significant
information leakage.
SNMP is based on UDP,
a simple, stateless protocol,
and is therefore susceptible to
IP spoofing and replay attacks.
In addition, the commonly used
SNMP protocols 1, 2, and 2c
offer no traffic encryption,
meaning that SNMP information
and credentials
can be easily intercepted
over a local network.
Traditional SNMP protocols also
have weak authentication schemes
and are commonly left configured
with default public and
private community strings.
Now, consider that all of
the above applies to a protocol,
which by definition is meant to
“Manage the Network”.
For all these reasons, SNMP is another one
of our favorite enumeration protocols.